feat: add code sprint 2024 blog post (#22)
geostyler/geostyler-homepage: content/codesprint-2024/contributions.md

+++
fragment = "content"
weight = 40
background = "light"

#title = "GeoStyler Code Sprint 2023"
+++

## Contributions

During the Code Sprint, we achieved the following:

> <img src="/images/geostyler-codesprint-2024-stats.png" alt="GeoStyler Code Sprint Stats" />

Reviewer: I'd move that to the bottom.

<br />

### GeoStyler ArcGIS Parser

One of the probably biggest and hopefully most impactful achievements is the
introduction of the [geostyler-lyrx-parser](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-lyrx-parser) which allows

> for parsing of ArcGIS Pro styles (.lyrx format)! The parser is based on the [GeoCat/bridge-style](https://github.com/GeoCat/bridge-style)
> and was now ported from Python into TypeScript and integrated into the GeoStyler GitHub organisation, so that
> the parser integrates seamlessly with all the other existing parsers! That means that it is now possible to convert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for parsing of ArcGIS Pro styles (.lyrx format)! The parser is based on the [GeoCat/bridge-style](https://github.com/GeoCat/bridge-style)
and was ported from Python into TypeScript. It is now and integrated into the GeoStyler eco sytem, so that it integrates seamlessly with all the other existing parsers! That means that it is now possible to convert
```

ArcGIS styles to QGIS, Mapbox, OpenLayers, and SLD! So far reading ArcGIS Pro styles with

> TODO list some capabilities here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
features layers, meaning point, line, polygon or text classes, with margin, padding, offset, colors and more is possible! Expression are already implemented but needs some corrections. Handling icons is a work in progress.
```

is supported.

Kudos to 
[@ger-benjamin](https://github.com/ger-benjamin),
[@jwkaltz](https://github.com/jwkaltz),
[@myriamfischer](https://github.com/myriamfischer),
[@thomasmarti](https://github.com/thomasmarti),
[@eschuh](https://github.com/eschuh),
[@bsteinemann](https://github.com/bsteinemann).

Besides that, an ArcGIS integration was created that allows for visually comparing ArcGIS styles with their SLD equivalents,
making use of the [GeoStyler REST API](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-rest).

Kudos to 
[@myriamfischer](https://github.com/myriamfischer),
[@thomasmarti](https://github.com/thomasmarti),
[@eschuh](https://github.com/eschuh),
[@bsteinemann](https://github.com/bsteinemann).

### GeoStyler CLI

Dependencies in the [geostyler-cli](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-cli) were upgraded to their latest versions. Furthermore,
the executing commands for the different environments such as node, npx, binary executable, were harmonized. For all environments,
the executing command will now be `geostyler-cli`!

Kudos to
[@geographika](https://github.com/geographika),
[@jansule](https://github.com/jansule).

> ### GeoStyler QGIS Plugin

Reviewer 2: IMO, this could be the first topic of the blog. This feature, adding GeosStyler in a popular software, could offers a new visibility to the Geostyler project!

[@jansule](https://github.com/jansule).

### GeoStyler Mapbox Parser

The [geostyler-mapbox-parser](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-mapbox-parser) now successfully reads colors as hex-codes
as well as RGBA strings into the GeoStyler style. This works for both hardcoded color values and color values in (nested) expressions.
Also the parser now supports the newly introduced `interpolate` expression.

Kudos to
[@jansule](https://github.com/jansule).

### GeoStyler SLD Parser

The usability of the [geostyler-sld-parser](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-sld-parser) was improved by automatically reading
the version of a given SLD from the style itself. Through this, it is now possible to up-/downgrade SLDs while using only a
single instance of the parser. Additionally, the geostyler-sld-parser now supports translating its error messages into multiple languages,
which allows for easier communicating styling errors with the style editors.

Kudos to
[@ocruze](https://github.com/ocruze),
[@pprev94](https://github.com/pprev94).

### GeoStyler UI

The [GeoStyler UI](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler) was improved by adding an upload file button to the code editor.

> Additionaly, the expresions UI was extended with elements for the `case` and `step` function expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionaly, the expressions UI was extended with elements for the `case` and `step` function expressions.
```

![GeoStyler UI Step Expression](/images/geostyler-codesprint-2024-expression-step.png)

Kudos to
[@kaivolland](https://github.com/kaivolland),
[@pprev94](https://github.com/pprev94).

### GeoStyler Visual Comparator

> A not-yet published tool for visually comparing different styles that were processed by GeoStyler was improved by adding
> additional styles to compare as well as minor UI tweaks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A not-yet published tool for visually comparing different styles that were processed by GeoStyler was improved by adding
additional styles to compare and tweaking the UI.
```

![GeoStyler Visual Comparator](/images/geostyler-codesprint-2024-comparator.png)

Kudos to 
[@jansule](https://github.com/jansule).

### GeoStyler Homepage Design

A new design concept for the GeoStyler Homepage was created that serves all static content at one place. As part of that,
the homepage, tutorials, showcases, demo applications and more should all be directly accessible from
the homepage. The new design is intended to better deliver the message of GeoStyler while still being easy to maintain.

![GeoStyler Homepage Design](/images/geostyler-codesprint-2024-design.png)

Kudos to

> Line,

Reviewer 3: [@linegallen](https://github.com/linegallen),

[@sarastreit](https://github.com/saraStreit),
[@antonellostruzzolino](https://github.com/antonellostruzzolino),
[@slafayIGN](https://github.com/slafayIGN),
[@jansule](https://github.com/jansule).

### ESModule Builds

The GeoStyler packages were harmonized and now all provide ESModule builds in their distrubtions. We also moved from
webpack to vite and vitest in order to simplify our tooling.

> Kudos to
> [@kaivolland](https://github.com/kaivolland),
> [@hwbllmnn](https://github.com/hwbllmnn).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kudos to
[@hwbllmnn](https://github.com/hwbllmnn).
```

Reviewer 4: I'd include @KaiVolland for moral support.

### GeoStyler REST

The [GeoStyler REST API](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-rest) received some updates and now makes use
of bun.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![GeoStyler Rest](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-homepage/assets/1849416/df75b0b2-32ab-4642-a322-b1276048df4f)
```

![GeoStyler Rest](https://github.com/geostyler/geostyler-homepage/assets/1849416/df75b0b2-32ab-4642-a322-b1276048df4f)

Reviewer: ... you probably want to save this like the other pictures.
